

Novak1997 - Cell Cycle

Modeling the control of DNA replication in fission yeast.

This model is described in the article:

[Modeling the control of DNA replication in fission
yeast.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/9256450)

Novak B., Tyson JJ.

Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 1997:94(17):9147-52

Abstract:

A central event in the eukaryotic cell cycle is the decision to commence DNA
replication (S phase). Strict controls normally operate to prevent repeated
rounds of DNA replication without intervening mitoses ("endoreplication") or
initiation of mitosis before DNA is fully replicated ("mitotic catastrophe").
Some of the genetic interactions involved in these controls have recently been
identified in yeast. From this evidence we propose a molecular mechanism of
"Start" control in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Using established principles of
biochemical kinetics, we compare the properties of this model in detail with
the observed behavior of various mutant strains of fission yeast: wee1(-)
(size control at Start), cdc13Delta and rum1(OP) (endoreplication), and
wee1(-) rum1Delta (rapid division cycles of diminishing cell size). We discuss
essential features of the mechanism that are responsible for characteristic
properties of Start control in fission yeast, to expose our proposal to
crucial experimental tests.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000007](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000007) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

